---
title: "Cooperative swarming fixed-wing drones with attachment capabilities: Bioinspiration and mutualism"
collection: talks
type: "talk"
permalink: /talks/2020-04-01-talk-3
venue: " New Mexico Tech Student Research Symposium"
date: 2020-04-01
location: "Socorro, New Mexico"
---

There are different methods to improve the energy efficiency of drones, such as optimization in the design process or implementation of drag reduction mechanisms. However, swarming and formation flight can be considered as one of the effective approaches for drag reduction. Swarming flight is a novel field of bioinspired artificial intelligence based on the behavioral models ofswarm flight of birds and insects in nature. In this work, we have investigated the drag reduction of echelon shaped swarming drones while transitioning to the attached drones in order to achieve a specific task. This transformation is known as cooperative drones and has many benefits such as efficiency enhancement or a higher probability of achieving a challenging task which an individual drone would have difficulties to do. The effects of the aspect ratio of the micro drones in drag ratio (drag in attached mode to the summation of the drag of solo Micro Air Vehicles ) are investigated. It is shown that for an aspect ratio smaller than 2 there is always a maximum drag ratio, but for higher values, the total drag decreases once the number of the attacheddrones increases. The results indicate that there is an optimum value for the wingtip spacing in the swarming mode. For example,the wingtip spacing of 0.05b the lowest total drag can be achieved for the swarming drones. It is visible, that switching between the attached and swarming modes, an optimum number of drones can be considered for flight.
